RECORD #493964


256723065 | OMBH | 25942820 | | 5031758 | 9/0/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/16/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: PELLEGRINI , GREGORY MD
ADMITTING SERVICE:
General Surgery Service.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 47-year-old female with a history of relapsing
polychondritis and morbid obesity , who presented six weeks prior
to admission with admission of choledocholithiasis and acute
cholecystitis. The patient was treated with a percutaneous
cholecystostomy tube as bridging therapy; however , the patient's
cholecystostomy tube was subsequently accidentally pulled out in
the weeks preceding her current admission. In the interim , the
patient denied any associated nausea , vomiting , fever , or
diarrhea. She was subsequently scheduled for an exploratory
laparotomy with an open cholecystectomy , which took place on
3/0/2005 . In order to fully address concerns related to her
history of polychondritis , the patient was scheduled for a
preoperative admission and pulmonary evaluation and was
subsequently admitted to the General Surgery Service on the
direction of Dr. Arron Mcdunn on 9/27 . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Relapsing polychondritis with associated interstitial lung
disease , tracheal , ear cartilage and nose involvement , managed
with dapsone , adalimumab , and steroids at home; morbid obesity;
COPD/OSA on CPAP at home; osteoporosis; bilateral avascular
necrosis of the hip; depression.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
Notable for prior sinus surgery , bilateral carpal tunnel surgery.
HOME MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Included levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. daily , Flagyl 500 mg p.o.
daily , prednisone 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. , trazodone , Effexor ,
Neurontin , quinine , Seroquel , Flexeril , OxyContin , DuoNeb ,
Advair , Caltrate plus vitamin D , Colace , esomeprazole.
ALLERGIES:
No known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
The patient has no notable alcohol , tobacco or IV drug use
history. The patient is married with two daughters , is
wheelchair bound and lives in Ven , Utah 37388
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION UPON ADMISSION:
Temperature 97.4 , heart rate 80 , blood pressure 110/90 ,
respiratory rate 20 , and saturating 95% on 4 liters. The
patient's general exam is notable for a morbidly obese ,
middle-aged female. HEENT exam demonstrated pupils equal , round
and reactive to light and accommodation. The patient
demonstrated no evidence of cranial nerve dysfunction.
Respiratory exam demonstrated lungs clear to auscultation
bilaterally , but distant breath sound secondary to her habitus.
Cardiovascular exam demonstrated normal S1 and S2 with regular
rate and rhythm. Abdomen was noted to morbidly obese , soft ,
nondistended with mild tenderness in the right upper quadrant.
Extremities noted to demonstrate mild peripheral edema with warm
and well-perfused clinical examination and no evidence of acute
run of ischemia.
LABORATORY EXAMS UPON ADMISSION:
Sodium 142 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 106 , bicarbonate 32 , BUN 8 ,
creatinine 0.9 , glucose 120. ALT 69 , AST 37 , alkaline
phosphatase 147 , total bili 0.7 , amylase 20 , lipase 15 , total
protein 6.4 , albumin 3.3 , calcium 8.1 , white blood cell count
5.7 , hematocrit 29.6 , platelets 152 , PT 14.7 , PTT 26.3 , and INR
is 1.1. UA was noted to be clear without evidence of urinary
tract infection.
EKG was notable for normal sinus rhythm at 62 beats per minute
without evidence of acute ischemia. Preoperative plain film of
the chest demonstrated unremarkable sinus and no acute
cardiopulmonary process seen.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
The patient was admitted to the General Surgery Service on the
direction of Dr. Morgan Taverner on 8/16/2005 . As mentioned
previously , her admission was scheduled several days prior to a
planned surgery in order to permit adequate evaluation by the
Pulmonary , Thoracic Surgery and Rheumatology Services in order to
clear for her planned surgical intervention given her history of
polychondritis. Following extensive review by the above-named
services , the patient was cleared for operative intervention and
subsequently underwent an open cholecystectomy on 3/0/2005 .
For detailed description of the patient's operative procedure ,
please see the relevant operative report.
The patient tolerated the procedure well and was subsequently
transferred to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit for further
evaluation and management postoperatively. Given concerns about
her airway and for continuous monitoring given concerns about her
body habitus. While in the Intensive Care Unit , the patient
could rest well clinically without acute events. She remained
stable from a cardiovascular standpoint and her pulmonary status
was noted to be stable through the duration of her initial
admission to the Intensive Care Unit. Following closed
observation in the ICU , the patient was subsequently cleared for
transfer to the regular patient floor on postoperative day number
one , 10/5/2005 . While on the regular floor , the patient
initially progressed well clinically. She was successfully
weaned from IV analgesia and was transitioned to oral pain
medications without complications. She initially remained stable
from a cardiovascular perspective and was noted to demonstrate a
stable wound exam with declining liver function studies through
postoperative day #2 , 2005.
At this point , once the patient was deemed stable for discharge
to home , she demonstrated an acute episode of increased work of
breathing and shortness of breath with an abrupt increase in her
oxygen requirements. Despite aggressive attempts to improve
oxygenation through noninvasive means , the patient proved to
unable to achieve oxygenation status with these measures and was
transferred emergently to the Intensive Care Unit for intubation.
Of note , arterial blood gas drawn in the context of this episode
demonstrated a widened A-a gradient concerning for a possible
coronary embolus. Given the patient's habitus and her weight ,
however , she was deemed inappropriate for a PE protocol scanning
and was treated presumptively for pulmonary embolus. The
remainder of the patient's admission was spent in the Intensive
Care Unit and was punctuated by respiratory failure , suspected
pulmonary embolus requiring ongoing heparin therapy , development
of intraabdominal bile leak requiring repeat exploratory
laparotomy and drainage procedure.
The subjects of the patient's admission will be further described
by system as follows:
1. Neurological: For the duration of her extended stay in the
Intensive Care Unit , the patient remained adequately sedated with
IV agents including fentanyl and Versed. Of note , the patient
was noted to demonstrate massive requirements of sedating
analgesic agents in order to provide adequate comfort. Despite
this , however , she was successfully weaned to a regimen of
intermittent opioid dosing via her G-tube , which she was noted to
tolerate without complication. With gradual withdrawal of her
sedating agents , the patient was noted to be appropriate and
responsive and demonstrated no evidence of neurological
compromise. Of note , the patient at no demonstrated any evidence
of acute neurological events or cerebrovascular accidents
necessitating further evaluation from a neurological perspective.
At the time of this dictation , the patient is noted to be alert ,
oriented and comfortable on an analgesia regimen consisting of
stable fentanyl infusion and p.r.n. oxycodone. She was noted to
move all extremities to command , noted to be appropriate to
questioning , demonstrates no evidence of neurological compromise
on gross exam.
2. Cardiovascular: The patient's Intensive Care Unit stay was
punctuated by progressive septic physiology requiring ongoing
pressor support for a period of several weeks in order to
maintain adequate profusion pressures. As her intraabdominal
process progressed , the patient was noted to require increasing
support with multiple agents including neosynephrine and
vasopressin; however , following appropriate surgical debridement
of her intraabdominal bile collection , she was gradually
successfully weaned from pressor agents and at no point
afterwards required further aggressive pressure therapy in order
to maintain adequate pressures. She at no point demonstrated any
evidence of acute myocardial ischemia despite multiple rule out
protocols in the setting of hypertensive episodes. Serial
bedside echocardiograms demonstrated no evidence of acute
myocardial dysfunction or diminution of ejection fraction and she
subsequently was noted to stabilize from cardiovascular
perspective. Of note , over the course of her admission , the
patient was noted to demonstrate periodic episodes of idiopathic
bradycardia unrelated to oxygenation status; however , she at no
point required external pacing or atropine therapy in order to
treat such episodes and was noted on all occasions as
spontaneously resolved her bradycardic episodes. At the time of
this dictation , the patient is noted to be stable with regular
rate and rhythm and no evidence of acute myocardial dysfunction.
She is free of pressor support and continues on a standing
regimen of Lopressor 25 mg per J-tube q.6h. without complication.
Followup EKG demonstrated no evidence of myocardial ischemia and
she has been free of episodes of bradycardia for at least the
past 10 days.
3. Pulmonary: As described above , the inciting events for the
patient's return to the Intensive Care Unit on postoperative day
#2 was noted to be acute respiratory distress secondary to
presumed pulmonary embolus. Unfortunately , the patient's body
habitus precluded her from a definitive pulmonary embolus
protocol CT scan and she was therefore started empirically on IV
heparin therapy in order to provide adequate anticoagulation.
Her weight incidentally also precluded her from additional
studies to evaluate for evidence of pulmonary embolus including a
VQ scan , thus her PE treatment regimen was based on empiric
evidence only. Following institution of heparin therapy , the
patient's oxygenation status was noted to gradually improve ,
although her pulmonary status was noted to decline with
subsequent increase in fluid requirements given her septic
physiology. Serial day x-rays performed in Intensive Care Unit
demonstrated evidence of fluid overload through the course of her
stay , which also likely compromised her oxygen status initially.
Given her ongoing requirement for pressor therapy while following
the development of her intraabdominal pathology , the patient was
recommended for a tracheostomy procedure given the expectation of
prolonged mechanical ventilation requirements. She therefore
underwent PEG placement on 10/14/2005 following an extensive
discussion with the patient's family regarding her likely
prognosis. For a detailed discussion of this procedure in the
context of a concomitant repeat exploratory laparotomy and
J-tube/G-tube insertion , please see relevant operative report.
Following placement of this tracheostomy , the patient progressed
well clinically from respiratory perspective. Following drainage
of her intraabdominal bile leak , the patient's septic physiology
was noted to gradually resolve and she was successfully weaned
from pressor therapy. With cessation of her pressors , adequate
diuresis was rendered possible and the patient was effectively
fluid oscillated for the duration of her Intensive Care Unit
stay.
With the fluid oscillating , the patient's respiratory status
continued to improve as such her serial chest x-ray demonstrated
gradually resolving over load. With diuresis , the patient was
subsequently gradually weaned from pressor support to successful
trach collar trials , which she accomplished without complication.
As the time of this dictation , the patient is noted to be
tolerating to the extended trach collar trials during the day
with planned ventilatory arrest at night. Her respiratory exam
demonstrated lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally with
mild bibasilar crackles and no additional evidence of acute
respiratory failure. Her trach site is clean , dry , and intact
with no evidence of cuff leak. The patient is successfully
tolerating trials of a Passe Muir valve , which has provided her
with ability to vocalize while on her trach collar trials. A
potential plan for trach tube downsizing has been deferred for
the movement given concerns about the risk of returning the
patient to the operating room for this procedure. Given the lack
of acute indication for such a procedure , it has been deemed best
to defer such an intervention until such surgery deemed
absolutely necessary.
4. GI: Shortly , following the patient's readmission to the
Intensive Care Unit , she was noted to demonstrate gradually
increasing liver function studies suggestive for potential repeat
biliary obstruction. The GI Service was , therefore , enlisted to
come and tell me potential appropriateness of an ERCP. Following
extensive discussions with the Gastroenterology Service , the
patient was subsequently recommended for an ERCP to be performed
in the operating room , which subsequently took place on
10/14/2005 . This selection of the operating room as the site for
intervention was informed on the basis of her inability to be
effectively scoped in the Radiology suite given her body habitus.
In the operating room , the patient underwent successful
placement of a biliary stent with liberation of a mild amount of
bilious fluid from the common bile duct. No sphincterotomy was
performed at this point. Following placement of the stent and
successful prominence of the ERCP , the patient was initially
noted to improve clinically with a transient diminish in her
biliary studies. However , shortly following , she again noted
gradual increase in her biliary studies and gradual worsening in
her general clinical exam associated with increasing fevers and
septic physiology. Serial abdominal exams were notable for
gradual increasing abdominal distension , necessitating a return
to the operating room on 10/14/2005 for a combined tracheotomy ,
exploratory laparotomy , drain placement , G-tube/J-tube placement ,
and biliary drainage procedure. For a detailed description of
the patient's operative procedure , please see a relevant
operative report. Of note , the patient was noted to demonstrate
a 3-liter bile collection intraoperatively with no evidence of
bowel injury or ischemia upon performing of this procedure.
Multiple intraabdominal drains were placed and no evidence of
active bile leak was noted at the time of this procedure.
Postoperatively , the patient progressed well clinically. Her
biliary function studies were noted to gradually normalize
following the drainage procedure and her abdominal exam remained
stable for the duration of her posterior course. Following
effective drainage of this collection , the patient's septic
physiology was noted to gradually correct , allowing effective
weaning of her pressor support and marked in all organ system
functions. She thereafter successfully started no tube feeds for
nutritional supplementation , which she tolerated without
complication. At all times , effective GI prophylaxis was
provided by Pepcid and PPI therapy. At the time of this
dictation , the patient's GI exam remained stable. Her abdomen
was soft , nondistended and nontender with evidence of morbid
obesity per her baseline exam. Her surgical incisions were noted
to be clean , dry and intact with staples in place. Of note , her
midline incision was left partially opened in order to promote
adequate wean drainage postoperatively and to permit healing by
secondary intervention; this incision has continued to remain
stable with no evidence of active infection postoperatively. Her
drain output has gradually diminished over her postoperative
course , permitting removal of one of her JP drains. Her G-tube
and J-tube sites remained clean , dry and intact with her tubes
remaining in place and functional. The patient is currently
running tube feeds at goal via her J-tube without complication.
Her G-tube continuous to vent appropriately without incident.
5. GU: Following transfer , the patient to the Intensive Care
Unit her urinary output continued to be monitored on a continuous
basis in order to reassess her hydration status. Through the
course of her time of septic physiology , the patient demonstrated
variable urine output correlated approximately with her blood
pressures. With resolution of her septic physiology , however ,
the patient was noted to be exuberantly responsive to efforts at
diuresis and was quickly noted to be independently productive of
large amounts of urine without diuretic therapy. She
successfully oscillated her fluids through the duration of her
admission , at no point demonstrated any evidence of acute renal
failure or electrolyte abnormalities. She at no point
demonstrated any evidence of a hemodialysis requirement during
the course of her admission. At the time of this dictation , the
patient remained independently productive of adequate amounts of
urine in order of 700 cc per hour via her Foley catheter. Her
electrolytes remained stable and BUN and creatinine demonstrate
no evidence of acute renal failure.
6. Heme: As stated previously , the presumed etiology of the
patient's return to the Intensive Care Unit was thought to be an
acute , hemodynamically stable pulmonary embolism. The patient
was immediately started on heparin therapy , which continued for
the duration of her ICU stay until the point of transition to
Coumadin therapy. Of note , the patient required large doses of
heparin in order to provide a therapeutic PTT with hourly
infusion rate in order of 2000-2500 units of heparin per hour.
Following prolonged heparin invasion and gradual stabilization of
her clinical status , the patient was gradually transitioned to
Coumadin therapy via her J-tube without complication. At the
time of this dictation , the patient remained borderline
therapeutic on Coumadin with an INR of 1.7 on a daily dose of
Coumadin 5 mg per day. She at no point has demonstrated any
evidence of postoperative hemorrhage or bleeding instability; her
platelet count has likewise remained stable for the duration of
her stay. Although , the potential for placement of an IVC filter
was discussed on several occasions during the duration of her
current admission , the patient's body habitus precludes her from
effective radiological placement of such a filter and such
intervention is therefore been deferred at least for the time
being.
7. ID: Following transfer of the patient to the Intensive Care
Unit , she was noted to demonstrate gradually worsening septic
physiology associated with spiking fevers for much of her initial
Intensive Care Unit stay. Serial cultures of blood , sputum ,
urine and biliary drainage were notable for evidence of near
pan-resistant pseudomonas in her biliary drainage site. An
Infectious Disease consultation was therefore obtained. The
patient was recommended for broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy
consisting of linezolid , ceftazidime , Flagyl and colistin. With
gradual worsening of her clinical condition , the patient was
subsequently started on a course of Xigris for a 96-hour period
per Xigris protocol. While on Xigris , the patient did not
demonstrate any appreciable improvement in her septic status and
she was therefore recommended for operative intervention on
10/14/2005 as described above. Following drainage of her
abdominal bile collection , the patient was noted to gradual
improve clinically with slow resolution of her septic state.
Followup cultures continued to demonstrate evidence of biliary
pseudomonas colonization necessitating ongoing colistin therapy.
With further speciation of her cultures , the patient was
subsequently weaned from all antibiotics except for colistin and
underwent placement of a PICC line for planned prolonged colistin
therapy. With stabilization of her clinical status , the patient
was subsequently restarted on her home dapsone regimen in order
to promote PCP prophylaxis given her home immunosuppressive and
steroid regimen. At the time of this discharge , the patient
remains afebrile with stable white blood cell count and no
additional culture information suggested for ongoing infection.
She has a stable and appropriately positioned upper extremity
PICC line , which is functional and continues to permit adequate
dosage of her standing colistin antibiotic regimen. As of this
dictation , the patient is planned for ongoing colistin therapy
for several weeks pending modification by the Infectious Disease
Service.
8. Endocrine: In the context of her ICU readmission , the
patient was noted to demonstrate widely fluctuant blood sugars
requiring continues therapy with a Portland protocol insulin
schedule. Following successful resolution of her septic
physiology , however , the patient was successfully weaned from
insulin therapy without complication and was noted to demonstrate
stable blood sugars for the duration of her stay. Given her home
steroid requirement for her chronic polychondritis , the patient
was placed on a steroid taper for the duration of her Intensive
Care Unit stay , which she continues at the time of this
dictation. At no point did she demonstrate any evidence of acute
adrenal insufficiency or thyroid dysfunction in the course of her
admission.
At the time of his dictation , the patient remains under
evaluation for planned transfer to a vented rehabilitation
facility. The remainder of the patient's hospital course and her
discharge medication regimen will be dictated at the time of her
transfer by an appropriate member of the Intensive Care Unit
team.
eScription document: 5-8789896 EMS
Dictated By: JOCHEMS , SOLOMON
Attending: DYE , LUTHER
Dictation ID 4187082
D: 8/4/05
T: 8/4/05
[report_end]
